h2. Welcome to MNN

This is a news publication system aimed to be flexible, highly customizable and extremely fast and scalable. 
It can be hosted for free in heroku or on a small 512MB VPS. 

It's still in Beta stage. The database has been moved into Stable mode now. It should be fairly safe now to run on production.


h2. Features

h3. Multi platform Front end

Front end interface is based the excellent TwitterBootstrap layout
http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/
It also features a grid systems that perfectly works on most devices, such as smartphones, tables, netbooks, notebooks, and partiallyy most simple phones. 
Other Features:

* Auto Post to Twitter
* Nice Tooltips
* ipad,iPhone,Android,BB,maemo devices fully supported
* Extremely fast Caching with dalli
* Private comment system or IntenseDebate/Disqus comments
* Image resizing
* TinyMCE live html editor
* Editor/Writes/Authors roles
* Registration system, Password recovery
* High security agains XSS attacks 
* Automatic related items engine
* Taggings and Categories
* Multi-Language
* Versioning System
* and other features alike wordpress



Note: this system is not a wordpress replacement, it's a different system geared towards Ruby on Rails developer and News Website. This is a news engine. 

h3. Powerful Admin interface

Admin interface powered by ActiveAdmin, very flexible and highly customizable.
http://activeadmin.info/

h3. Rock Solid Search

It provided Search ability with Sunspot SOLR indexing. SOLR is very fast and highly customizable indexing engine by LUCENE.
Users should be able to search posts by Author, Category, Tags, HashTags, Content, Title, etc.

h3. Automatic Related items

Automatic related items are calculated using Solr search and Stem algorithm for related words.

h3. Secure comments

Comments spam protection with Akismet, Swearing and bad words detection to flag comment.
Comments moderation is managed by admin users.

h3. RSS and Atom feeds

A fully compliant RSS and Atom feed is available for Items, Tags, categories, languages and even authors.
Readers can follow RSS feeds for a desired category, or a favorite author and even just one language.

h3. Roles System

A Roles System similar to Wordpress but automatically ranked with Karma Score System.

h3. Security

Security is enforced with CanCan and Devise.
Only Users with specific roles can make authorized changes to system. 
All changes on the system *Should* be reversible, with a few exceptions.

h3. Caching with memcached and Rack-Cache

Items cached are served very fast to the front-user.
using dalli fragment cache

h3. Image uploading to S3

With carrierwave, Fog and RMagick, images are resized and uploaded to S3.
So that images are quickly served to users all around the world.
Optionally enabled with Amazon Cloudfront CDN.

h3. Articles Versioning

Posts with Multi Versions, using Paper-Trail (https://github.com/airblade/paper_trail)
Articles history, trash and draft modes.

...and many more features....


h2. Installation:


h2. Contributors:

# Frederico Araujo
# other anonymous contributors

h2. Inspired By: 

Diaspora 
LocomotiveCMS 
Refinerycms 
Wordpress 


Developers and Contributors highly welcome.


h2. License

Please see COPYING file

	This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
	the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
	(at your option) any later version.

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	GNU General Public License for more details.

	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
	along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
